Updates the Data Prepper S3 source documentation (#3813)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3.md

---
layout: default

> title: `s3` source

Reviewer: Remove tic marks for metadata titles - this will not allow the page to display properly.

parent: Sources
grand_parent: Pipelines
nav_order: 20
---

# `s3` source

> `s3` is a source plugin that reads events from [Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3)](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/) objects. It requires an [Amazon Simple Queue Service (SQS)](https://aws.amazon.com/sqs/) queue that receives [S3 Event Notifications](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/NotificationHowTo.html). After SQS is configured, the `s3` source receives messages from SQS. When the SWS message indicates an S3 object was created, the `s3` source loads the objects than parses them using the configured [codec](#codec). You can also configure the `s3` source to use [Amazon S3 Select](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/selecting-content-from-objects.html) to parse S3 objects instead of Data Prepper.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`s3` is a source plugin that reads events from [Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3)](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/) objects. It requires an [Amazon Simple Queue Service (SQS)](https://aws.amazon.com/sqs/) queue that receives [S3 Event Notifications](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/NotificationHowTo.html). After Amazon SQS is configured, the `s3` source receives messages from SQS. When the SWS message indicates an S3 object was created, the `s3` source loads the objects than parses them using the configured [codec](#codec). You can also configure the `s3` source to use [Amazon S3 Select](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/selecting-content-from-objects.html) to parse S3 objects instead of Data Prepper.
```

Reviewer 2: Yarp. Good catch.

## AWS IAM Permissions

> In order to use the `s3` source, configure your AWS permissions to grant Data Prepper access to S3. You can use a configuration similar to the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to use the `s3` source, configure your AWS permissions to grant Data Prepper access to S3. You can use a configuration similar to the following JSON configuration:
```

```json
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Sid": "s3-access",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": "s3:GetObject",
            "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::<YOUR-BUCKET>/*"
        },
        {
            "Sid": "sqs-access",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "sqs:DeleteMessage",
                "sqs:ReceiveMessage"
            ],
            "Resource": "arn:aws:sqs:<YOUR-REGION>:<123456789012>:<YOUR-SQS-QUEUE>"
        },
        {
            "Sid": "kms-access",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": "kms:Decrypt",
            "Resource": "arn:aws:kms:<YOUR-REGION>:<123456789012>:key/<YOUR-KMS-KEY>"
        }
    ]
}
```

> If your S3 objects or SQS queues do use the [AWS Key Management Service](https://aws.amazon.com/kms/), remove the `kms:Decrypt` permission.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your S3 objects or Amazon SQS queues do use the [AWS Key Management Service](https://aws.amazon.com/kms/), remove the `kms:Decrypt` permission.
```

If your S3 objects or SQS queues do use the [AWS Key Management Service](https://aws.amazon.com/kms/), remove the `kms:Decrypt` permission.

## Configuration

The following table describes options you can use to configure the `s3` source.

Option | Required | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---
notification_type | Yes | String | Must be `sqs`.
compression | No | String | The compression algorithm to apply: `none`, `gzip`, or `automatic`. Default value is `none`.
codec | Yes | Codec | The codec to apply. Must be `newline`, `json`, or `csv`. 

> sqs | Yes | sqs | The [Amazon Simple Queue Service (SQS)](https://aws.amazon.com/sqs/) (Amazon SQS) configuration. See [sqs](#sqs) for details.

Reviewer: Should "sqs" be capitalized?

> sqs | Yes | sqs | The SWS configuration. See [sqs](#sqs) for details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
sqs | Yes | sqs | The SQS configuration. See [sqs](#sqs) for details.
```

aws_sts_header_overrides | No | Map | A map of header overrides to make when assuming the IAM role for the sink plugin.

## codec

The `codec` determines how the `s3` source parses each S3 object.

### newline

The `newline` option parses each single line as a single log event. This is ideal for most application logs since each event parses per single line. It can also be suitable for S3 objects that have individual JSON objects on each line, which matches well when uses with the [parse_json]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/parse-json/) processor to parse each line.

Option | Required | Type    | Description
:--- | :--- |:--------| :---
skip_lines | No | Integer | The number of lines to skip before creating events. You can use this configuration to skip common header rows. Defaults to `0`.
header_destination | No | String  | A key value to assign the header line of the S3 object. If this option is specified then each Event will contain a header_destination field.

> ### json

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### JSON
```

Reviewer 2: Keeping this lowercase to match how the codec setting appears in the processor, which is `json`.

Reviewer 2: Added `codec` for clarity here.

> The `json` option parses each S3 object as a single JSON object from a JSON array, then creates a Data Prepper log event for each object in the array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `JSON` option parses each S3 object as a single JSON object from a JSON array, then creates a Data Prepper log event for each object in the array.
```

### csv

> The `csv` option parses object from a comma-seperated value (CSV) format, with each row producing a Data Prepper log event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `CSV` option parses object from a comma-seperated value (CSV) format, with each row producing a Data Prepper log event.
```

expression_type | No  | String | The type of the provided expression. The default value is `SQL`. Maps directly to the [ExpressionType](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/API_SelectObjectContent.html#AmazonS3-SelectObjectContent-request-ExpressionType)
input_serialization | Yes, when using `s3_select` | String  | Provides the S3 Select file format. Amazon S3 uses this format to parse object data into records and returns only records that match the specified SQL expression. Maybe be `csv`, `json`, or `parquet`.
compression_type | No | String  | Specifies object's compression format. Maps directly to the [CompressionType](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/API_InputSerialization.html#AmazonS3-Type-InputSerialization-CompressionType)
csv | No | [csv](#s3_select_csv) | Provides the CSV configuration for processing CSV data.
json | No | [json](#s3_select_json) | Provides the JSON configuration for processing JSON data.

> ### csv<a name="s3_select_csv"></a>

Reviewer: Was the code in this heading intentional?

Reviewer 2: Yes. It sets a custom header reference so that Jekyll knows what `#csv` header to go when there's multiple `csv` headers.

Use the following options in conjunction with the `csv` configuration for `s3_select`  to determine how your parsed CSV file should be formatted.

These options map directly to options available in S3 Select's [CSVInput](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/API_CSVInput.html) data type.

Option | Required | Type        | Description
:--- |:---------|:------------| :---
file_header_info | No  | String  | Describes the first line of input. Maps directly to the [FileHeaderInfo](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/API_CSVInput.html#AmazonS3-Type-CSVInput-FileHeaderInfo) property.
quote_escape | No  | String  | A single character used for escaping the quotation mark character inside an already escaped value. Maps directly to the [QuoteEscapeCharacter](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/API_CSVInput.html#AmazonS3-Type-CSVInput-QuoteEscapeCharacter) property.
comments | No   | String  | A single character used to indicate that a row should be ignored when the character is present at the start of that row. Maps directly to the [Comments](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/API_CSVInput.html#AmazonS3-Type-CSVInput-Comments) property.

> #### json<a name="s3_select_json"></a>

Reviewer: Same as previous comment - was the code in this heading intentional?

> Use the following option in conjunction with the `json` for `s3_select` to how S3 Select processes the JSON file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following option in conjunction with the `JSON` for `s3_select` to how S3 Select processes the JSON file.
```

Option | Required | Type  | Description
:--- |:---------|:------------| :---
type | No  | String  | The type of JSON. May be either `DOCUMENT` or `LINES`. Maps directly to the [Type](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/API_JSONInput.html#AmazonS3-Type-JSONInput-Type) property.

> ## Metrics

Reviewer: In other docs, we have this section formatted as a table (metric name/type/description). The type of metric should definitely be included here, especially if it's a custom metric specific to source.

Reviewer 2: I'll reconcile these in the great processor reconciliation PR I'm working on.

:--- | :--- | :--- | :---
region | No | String | The AWS Region to use for credentials. Defaults to [standard SDK behavior to determine the Region](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-java/latest/developer-guide/region-selection.html).
sts_role_arn | No | String | The AWS Security Token Service (AWS STS) role to assume for requests to Amazon SQS and Amazon S3. Defaults to null, which will use the [standard SDK behavior for credentials](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-java/latest/developer-guide/credentials.html).

> aws_sts_header_overrides | No | Map | A map of header overrides to make when assuming the IAM role for the sink plugin.

Reviewer 2: How about this?

```suggestion
aws_sts_header_overrides | No | Map | A map of header overrides the IAM role assumes for the sink plugin.
```

## codec

The `codec` determines how the `s3` source parses each S3 object.

### newline codec

The `newline` option parses each single line as a single log event. This is ideal for most application logs since each event parses per single line. It can also be suitable for S3 objects that have individual JSON objects on each line, which matches well when uses with the [parse_json]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/parse-json/) processor to parse each line.

Option | Required | Type    | Description
:--- | :--- |:--------| :---
skip_lines | No | Integer | The number of lines to skip before creating events. You can use this configuration to skip common header rows. Defaults to `0`.
header_destination | No | String  | A key value to assign the header line of the S3 object. If this option is specified then each Event will contain a header_destination field.

### json codec

The `json` option parses each S3 object as a single JSON object from a JSON array, then creates a Data Prepper log event for each object in the array.

### csv codec

> The `csv` option parses object from a comma-seperated value (CSV) format, with each row producing a Data Prepper log event.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `csv` codec parses objects in comma-separated value (CSV) format, with each row producing a Data Prepper log event.
```

> Option | Required | Type   | Description

Reviewer 3: Ensure that the table is introduced in the text that precedes it.

:--- |:---------|:------------| :---

> delimiter | Yes | Integer  | The delimiter separating columns. Defaults to `,`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
delimiter | Yes | Integer  | The delimiter separating columns. Default is `,`.
```

quote_character | Yes  | String  | The character used as a text qualifier for CSV data. Defaults to double quote (`"`).
header | No   | String List | The header containing the column names used to parse CSV data.
detect_header | No   | Boolean   | Whether the first line of the S3 object should be interpreted as a header. Defaults to `true`.

## Using `s3_select` with the `s3` source

When configuring `s3_select` to parse S3 objects, use the following options.

Option | Required  | Type        | Description
:--- |:-----------------------|:------------| :---

> expression | Yes, when using `s3_select` | String | The expression used to query the object. Maps directly to the [Expression](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/API_SelectObjectContent.html#AmazonS3-SelectObjectContent-request-Expression) property.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
expression | Yes, when using `s3_select` | String | The expression used to query the object. Maps directly to the [expression](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/API_SelectObjectContent.html#AmazonS3-SelectObjectContent-request-Expression) property.
```

expression_type | No  | String | The type of the provided expression. The default value is `SQL`. Maps directly to the [ExpressionType](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/API_SelectObjectContent.html#AmazonS3-SelectObjectContent-request-ExpressionType)
input_serialization | Yes, when using `s3_select` | String  | Provides the S3 Select file format. Amazon S3 uses this format to parse object data into records and returns only records that match the specified SQL expression. Maybe be `csv`, `json`, or `parquet`.

> compression_type | No | String  | Specifies object's compression format. Maps directly to the [CompressionType](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/API_InputSerialization.html#AmazonS3-Type-InputSerialization-CompressionType)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
compression_type | No | String  | Specifies an object's compression format. Maps directly to the [CompressionType](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/API_InputSerialization.html#AmazonS3-Type-InputSerialization-CompressionType).
```

csv | No | [csv](#s3_select_csv) | Provides the CSV configuration for processing CSV data.
json | No | [json](#s3_select_json) | Provides the JSON configuration for processing JSON data.

### csv<a name="s3_select_csv"></a>

Use the following options in conjunction with the `csv` configuration for `s3_select`  to determine how your parsed CSV file should be formatted.

> These options map directly to options available in S3 Select's [CSVInput](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/API_CSVInput.html) data type.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These options map directly to options available in the S3 Select [CSVInput](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/API_CSVInput.html) data type.
```

Option | Required | Type        | Description
:--- |:---------|:------------| :---
file_header_info | No  | String  | Describes the first line of input. Maps directly to the [FileHeaderInfo](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/API_CSVInput.html#AmazonS3-Type-CSVInput-FileHeaderInfo) property.
quote_escape | No  | String  | A single character used for escaping the quotation mark character inside an already escaped value. Maps directly to the [QuoteEscapeCharacter](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/API_CSVInput.html#AmazonS3-Type-CSVInput-QuoteEscapeCharacter) property.
comments | No   | String  | A single character used to indicate that a row should be ignored when the character is present at the start of that row. Maps directly to the [Comments](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/API_CSVInput.html#AmazonS3-Type-CSVInput-Comments) property.

#### json<a name="s3_select_json"></a>

> Use the following option in conjunction with the `json` for `s3_select` to how S3 Select processes the JSON file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use the following option in conjunction with `json` for `s3_select` to determine how S3 Select processes the JSON file.
```

Option | Required | Type  | Description
:--- |:---------|:------------| :---

> type | No  | String  | The type of JSON. May be either `DOCUMENT` or `LINES`. Maps directly to the [Type](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/API_JSONInput.html#AmazonS3-Type-JSONInput-Type) property.

Reviewer 3: Insert the noun after "JSON". The type of JSON what?

## Metrics

The `s3` source includes the following metrics.

### Counters

* `s3ObjectsFailed`: The number of S3 objects that the `s3` source failed to read.
* `s3ObjectsNotFound`: The number of S3 objects that the `s3` source failed to read due to an S3 "Not Found" error. These are also counted toward `s3ObjectsFailed`.
* `s3ObjectsAccessDenied`: The number of S3 objects that the `s3` source failed to read due to an "Access Denied" or "Forbidden" error. These are also counted toward `s3ObjectsFailed`. 
* `s3ObjectsSucceeded`: The number of S3 objects that the `s3` source successfully read.
* `sqsMessagesReceived`: The number of Amazon SQS messages received from the queue by the `s3` source.
* `sqsMessagesDeleted`: The number of Amazon SQS messages deleted from the queue by the `s3` source.
* `sqsMessagesFailed`: The number of Amazon SQS messages that the `s3` source failed to parse.

### Timers

* `s3ObjectReadTimeElapsed`: Measures the amount of time the `s3` source takes to perform a request to GET an S3 object, parse it, and write events to the buffer.

> * `sqsMessageDelay`: Measures the amount of time from when S3 creates an object to when it is fully parsed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `sqsMessageDelay`: Measures the time elapsed from when S3 creates an object to when it is fully parsed.
```

### Distribution summaries

* `s3ObjectSizeBytes`: Measures the size of S3 objects as reported by the S3 `Content-Length`. For compressed objects, this is the compressed size.
* `s3ObjectProcessedBytes`: Measures the bytes processed by the `s3` source for a given object. For compressed objects, this is the uncompressed size.
* `s3ObjectsEvents`: Measures the number of events (sometimes called records) produced by an S3 object.

## Example: Uncompressed logs

> The following pipeline.yaml shows a minimum configuration for reading uncompressed newline-delimited logs.

Reviewer 3: "the" minimum configuration?

Reviewer 2: Changed

> The following pipeline.yaml shows a minimum configuration for reading uncompressed newline-delimited logs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following pipeline.yaml file shows a minimum configuration for reading uncompressed newline-delimited logs:
```

* `s3ObjectsSucceeded`: The number of S3 objects that the `s3` source successfully read.
* `sqsMessagesReceived`: The number of Amazon SQS messages received from the queue by the `s3` source.
* `sqsMessagesDeleted`: The number of Amazon SQS messages deleted from the queue by the `s3` source.
* `sqsMessagesFailed`: The number of Amazon SQS messages that the `s3` source failed to parse.

### Timers

* `s3ObjectReadTimeElapsed`: Measures the amount of time the `s3` source takes to perform a request to GET an S3 object, parse it, and write events to the buffer.
* `sqsMessageDelay`: Measures the time elapsed from when S3 creates an object to when it is fully parsed.

### Distribution summaries

* `s3ObjectSizeBytes`: Measures the size of S3 objects as reported by the S3 `Content-Length`. For compressed objects, this is the compressed size.
* `s3ObjectProcessedBytes`: Measures the bytes processed by the `s3` source for a given object. For compressed objects, this is the uncompressed size.
* `s3ObjectsEvents`: Measures the number of events (sometimes called records) produced by an S3 object.

## Example: Uncompressed logs

> The following pipeline.yaml file shows a minimum configuration for reading uncompressed newline-delimited logs:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following pipeline.yaml file shows the minimum configuration for reading uncompressed newline-delimited logs:
```

* `s3ObjectSizeBytes`: Measures the size of Amazon S3 objects as reported by the Amazon S3 `Content-Length`. For compressed objects, this is the compressed size.
* `s3ObjectProcessedBytes`: Measures the bytes processed by the `s3` source for a given object. For compressed objects, this is the uncompressed size.
* `s3ObjectsEvents`: Measures the number of events (sometimes called records) produced by an S3 object.

## Example: Uncompressed logs

> The following configuration shows a minimum configuration for reading uncompressed newline-delimited logs.

Reviewer 2: pipeline.yaml
